I administrate this computer, snoopy.apana.org.au. This computer has a long
history. Initially I run a [Bulletin Board System
(BBS)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BBS), for a local computer club.

Internet was almost unheard of then, so we used
[Fidonet](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fidonet) instead. Connecting to a remote
computer meant looking up the telephone number in a database, and dialing the
number on a modem. As such, was Fidonet world wide network like the Internet,
only it cost more for long distance connections. As such it was best suited for
sending email. Each computer in turn would forward email to the next computer
in turn until it reached its destination. Private email was unheard of. There
was a private message type, but you expected system administrators (SYSOPS) to
read your private mail regardless. Unfortunately, with increased use of the
Internet, Fidonet isn't nearly as popular as it once was, and I no longer
connect to it.

At one time it use to have a permanent connection to APANA. APANA was good
because at the time it was the only feasible (ie. afforable) method of
connecting to the Internet. As an extra bonus, they supported permanent
connections. I use to allow people to dial into my computer to access the
Internet via a text mode Linux interface in return for a small donation.
Unfortunately, the increased competition from ADSL meant I could get a cheaper
connection that was faster, and I made the change to Westnet. At the same time,
APANA lost numerous members for similar reasons, and Ross House (where the
central hub for Melbourne was located) suddenly decided we were a "for profit"
organisation, and increased our rent. We could not afford the old rates, let
alone the new rates. The bottom line is that the HUB is no closed, and APANA in
Melbourne only exists as DNS entries and IP addresses.

Through my work in maintaining snoopy, I have attending meant
[[Skills/Conferences]] and learnt many [[Skills]] such as:

* [[Skills/Asterisk]]
* [[Skills/Linux]]
* [[Skills/Mythtv]]
