[[template id=photo photo=484 title="Photo of Charles McGregor"]]

Born: 19 March 1908 <br />
Australia

Died: 12 July 1996 <br />
Lakes Entrance, Victoria, Australia

Married to [[Jean_McGregor]].

[[template id=photos_person person=12 link="More photos"]]

From the Bairnsdale advertiser:

<blockquote>
<h3>Charles Robert ("Mick") McGregor
Born March 19, 1908, died July 27, 1996.</h3>

Mick was born on his grandparents property, on the Lindenow South-Fernbank
Road, the son of Charles and Marion McGregor.

His parents moved to Woodglen, where he attended school, and later moved back
to Lindenow South, when his father selected land.

On leaving school, Mick became a drover, working throughout East Gippsland, and
then went sleeper cutting until he joined the Army in 1941.

After the Second World War he continued to work in the timber industry, as well
as helping his parents milk cows and grow vegetables for the Melbourne market.

Later he was employed by the forests commission, where he continued to work
until his retirement at the age of 65.

In 1948, Mick married Jean Skinner and they had two daughters, Helen and
Janice. He gained great pleasure from his grandchildren. Gavin, Brian, Phillip
and Rosemary.

In his younger days, Mick was taught to play the violin by Mrs. Higgins, at
Lindenow South. He enjoyed playing, and entertained many people over the years
with musical talents.

On his retirement he moved to Paynesville, where he enjoyed caring for his
large garden, and spent time fossicking in the old goldfields north of
Bairnsdale.

Last year failing eyesight restricted his activities, and he was hospitalized
in June.

Mick was well-known in Lindenow South-Fernbank district and highly respected by
the many friends he made in his life of 88 years.
</blockquote>
