[[template id=photo photo=11125 title="Photo of Frank May"]]

Born: 1 May 1926 <br />
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia

Died: 21 Oct 2005 <br />
Frankston Hospital, Frankston, Victoria, Australia

Married to [[Lucy_May]].

[[template id=photos_person person=21 link="More photos"]]

Frank as he was known, was born at home at 27 Courang Road, Glen Iris, a
beloved second son to John May and Hazel Shaw. He was christened at St Paul’s
Anglican church, Malvern (where his parents had been married) on 18 September
1926.

Whilst a child, Frank was blessed with blond curly hair that his mother was
loth to cut. However it appears that his looks belied his temperament, as he
was very mischievous, and was often in “situations”.

He attended Glen Iris PS to Grade 6, followed by 3 years at Swinburne Technical
School, coming out with a Certificate in Engineering. His first job was with
the company Rola, makers of radio speakers and hi-fi equipment.

He became involved in the Second World War, near its completion, in the RAAF.
He enlisted on 31 October 1944 and discharged on 6 March 1946 as Aircraftsman 1
in ACRS. 

Following his stint in the air-force, Frank joined the Country Fire Authority
and was posted out to a country depot. He was to spend his working days being
transferred to various country postings, including Creswick, Mount Taylor,
Buchan, Powelltown, Marysville, and lastly, the Dandenong Ranges.

It was from here that Frank was forced to retire, due to ill-health - he
developed Parkinson’s Disease, which he was able to hold at bay and enjoy a
fairly full life, for many years. He had been very involved in conservation,
even before it was fashionable, and worked hard to keep the forests that he
loved so well, safe and sustainable. His final days in the Forest commission
coincided with the devastating Ash Wednesday fires, trying to coordinate relief
efforts, on the ground and by flying over the Dandenongs to view the fir’s path
from the air.

Frank was most fortunate in meeting and marrying Lucy Rixon, who has been his
help-mate through all the moves, and now, the viscitudes of his illness. Frank
married Lucy in March 1947. Lucy was the daughter of Henry John Rixon and his
second wife, Daisy Lillian Green, who had married in 1923. Her father died at
Caulfield in 1954, aged 64; her mother died at Warburton in 1972, aged 89.
Daisy is buried at Springvale Cem on 11 February 1972 - Bolingbroke Lawn Row A4
Grave 21. There is supposedly a connection in the family to Captain James Cook
- this could be through Daisy, as her parents were William Green and Johanna
Cook. Her father’s parents were William Benjamin Rixon and Lucy Mary ?

Lucy bore Frank a large family - 6 boys and 1 girl, and they now have quite a
few grandchildren and great-grandchildren.  Frank passes away peacefully on the
evening of 21 October 2005 at Frankston hospital where he had been cared for
for about 2 weeks. During that time, all of his family had taken the time to be
with him. His funeral service was held, on 28 october, at St Mark’s C of E at
Lower Templestowe, officiated by the Rev Rob Castelow - who is, coincidentally,
connected to the family through Frank’s daughter-in-law Mary. Frank was later
buried at Eltham Cemetery.
