[[!template id=photo photo=27383 title="Photo of Jean McGregor"]]

Born: 19 March 1918, Australia.

Died: 23 November 2007, Upper Beaconsfield, Australia.

Funeral: 27th November 2007, St Thomas Church, Upper Ferntree Gully; see
[[!template id=photos_album album=147 link="photos"]].

Married to [[Charles_McGregor]].

[[!template id=photos_person person=11 link="More photos"]]

## School
Grandma says she went to <a href="http://www.maps.vic.edu.au/princip.htm">Mont
Albert Central School</a> when she was 11 years old (1929). From their website:

<blockquote>
Mont Albert Primary School, established in 1917, is proud of its fine tradition
of scholarship. From 1919 until the early 1960’s it served as a central school,
drawing pupils from a wide area.

– John Gow, Principal, 2007 
</blockquote>

Grandma can still remember the school song:

<blockquote>
I come from Mont Albert Central School,
the school thats on the hill, sir.

We love our school and keep our will
and work with a right good will, sir.

Our years are few but fighting through,
great laurels has she won, sir.

– Jean McGregor, 2006-02-14 
</blockquote>

Grandma tried to write this on paper so that she could send it to the current
principal, but her writing was illegible.

## College

After school, Grandma went to college. Monevat college? She did a course on
short hand typing.

## Solicitors

Grandma worked as a typist at a solicitors branch. Cameron and Lowenstern.
Unfortunately, the solicitors closed during the war.

## Nursemaid

Then she worked as a nurse maid  at the Wintercookes in Hamilton for two
months. The Wintercookes had a big 2 story house with big staircase and rooms
for servants. It was easy to get lost in the building.

Apparently the parents wanted at least one boy in order to continue the family
name, and kept getting girls instead. They ended up with 4 girls. One was
called Elizabeth, and went to boarding school in <a
href="http://walkabout.com.au/locations/VICWoodend.shtml">Woodend</a>. They
then had twins, and one of the twins was named Caroline, and the other was
named Robert.

Grandma assisted looking after the children, who had measles. 

After that she went to a smaller house, a large single story house. Also in
Hamilton. The child there, Veronica, also had the measles. Veronica went to
school in <a
href="http://www4.visitvictoria.com/displayObject.cfm/ObjectID.0004FD87-085C-1A65-88CD80C476A90318/vvt.vhtml">Hamilton</a>,
as this was the nearest big town.

At this house they obtained a big pot filled with cream, and another big pot
filled with strawberries, and the cook used these to make a huge cake.

She frequently likes talking about her next job a nurse at
[[St_Leeor_Nursing_Home]] (also known as St. Leoor Hospital), which she worked
at until she married Charles McGregor.

## More info

Additional <a
href="http://wiki.microcomaustralia.com.au/Jean_McGregor/">rough notes</a>
are available.
