[[template id=trip destination="China and Singapore"
transport="airliner" begin="2000-08" end="2000-08" purpose="conference"
map="http://maps.google.com.au/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&msid=109540496108482654955.000448811d88a61656f46&ll=39.919216,116.415253&spn=0.609824,0.931091&t=h&z=10"]]

I went to China so I could present my paper on Kerberos at
[[Skills/Conferences/WCC2000]] (World Computer Congress)</a>.

I have a number of photos taken on this trip.

## China

When I arrived in China, the airport was very busy. It took me about one hour
to make my way through customs, so I could pick up my luggage. I was exhausted
by the time I got through, and made the mistake of choosing the more expensive
taxi. While I was told the cost before hand, I miscalculated and thought it was
OK, when it wasn't. In the end (after bargaining), I was charged 320 yaun + 15
for the expressway toll, instead of 70 yaun.

Breakfast was the best meal of the day, as it was an "all you can eat" buffet
style meal, with a selection of breakfast cereals, and cooked breakfasts.

I went on the WCC organised night trip to see the Chinese Acrobatics (sorry, no
photos). You have to be very careful on these tours not to get lost, as the
tour guide has no way of knowing where you are, and everyone has to wait as a
result...

I also went on the WCC organised tour of the great wall of China. This was very
interesting. One word of caution: make sure you keep in your same seat, on the
same bus, every-time, even if it has been occupied by someone else. This is
even if the tour guides say "you may get on any bus as they are all going to
the same place". This is because some people get very possessive of their seats
and are willing endlessly argue to get their original seats back. This spoiled
an otherwise pleasant day.

I didn't realise it at first, but there are two walks up the wall, the east
path, and the west path. I went the west way. The west wall, unlike the east is
crowded, steep, and goes higher. I almost made it to the top, but stopped at
the last (I think) stretch, as I was getting too hot and exhausted. Still, I
think it was well worth the effort. This, I believe is one of the biggest
highlights of my trip to Beijing. On the same tour, I also saw a Cloisonne
manufacturer, and visited an ancient underground burial site.

[[template id=photos_album album=18 link="More photos"]]

## Singapore

I stopped on the way back for three days in Singapore. I was hoping for some
cooler weather, but Singapore seemed just as hot and (more importantly) as
humid as Beijing. I was told as one point that the humidity reached 95%. I went
on a tour of the Sentosa island and some parts of the city.

[[template id=photos_album album=21 link="More photos"]]
