# The Great Ocean Road

In May this year, we went to see stay at [[!template id=photos_place place=198
link="Cobden Crest Cottage"]], near [[!template id=photos_place place=196
link="The Great Ocean Road"]].

It was a great place to stay, but unfortunately, the locals didn't understand
any english. They kept repeating the same word over and over, I think it sounded
like "MOOOoooooo."

[[!template id=photo photo=26089 title="Cobden locals"]]

[[!more text="""
The Cobden Creat Cottage came complete with Kitchen, Bedrooms and Games rooms.

[[!template id=photo photo=26114 title="Kitchen"]]

We saw the road to nowhere. This road use to be the main road, and was to close
to the cliff, and as such the road was relocated.

[[!template id=photo photo=26131 title="Road to nowhere"]]

We saw history behind General Motors Holden.

[[!template id=photo photo=26180 title="Holden & Frost"]]

... as well as some incredible views of the coast.

[[!template id=photo photo=26287 title="Near Gibson steps"]]

Some of the tourist attractions had lots of steps to climb up and down.

[[!template id=photo photo=26253 title="The Grotto"]]

Some of the waves were very big, and had a dramatic effect as they came in. It
is hard to capture on camera.

[[!template id=photo photo=26496 title="Powerful waves"]]

We also visited the nearby chocolate factory and the cheese factory. We saw the
Lochness Cow outside the cheese factory. Unfortunately Dad was too slow, and
didn't see it. The photo is not a fake.

[[!template id=photo photo=26505 title="Lochness Cow"]]

[[!template id=photos_album album=276 link="More photos"]]
"""]]

[[!tag categories/holidays]]
