# Paynesville

Earlier May this year, we went to Paynesville to fix up Grandma's old house.

[[!template id=photo photo=25965 title="Grandma's unit"]]

We made a complete mess of the house. This is because we had to remove
everything, in order to allow us to rent the property.

[[!template id=photo photo=26014 title="Grandma's kitchen"]]

We took a lot of things to the tip, as we didn't have anywhere else to put
them. One car trip was very loaded, as we had two chairs, one sofa, and two
beds. As well as some other bits and pieces, like an old low quality record
player.

This was kind of sad, because the chairs and sofa have been in the family for
a long time, however we don't have the time to restore them to good health
or any where to but them if we did restore them.

[[!template id=photo photo=26028 title="Loaded car"]]

On the last day, we took Tyla, our dog to the beach.

[[!template id=photo photo=26055 title="The beach"]]

Initially, Tyla was very jealous when another dog was allowed to fetch a stick
in the water, but then when Tyla had a turn, the other dog became very jealous,
and jumped off the jetty and into the water.

[[!template id=photo photo=26061 title="Jealous dog"]]

Tyla was happy because we throw the stick into the water lots of times so she
could fetch it.

[[!template id=photo photo=26060 title="Tyla happy"]]

After Tyla went swimming she was a very messy with lots of sand.

[[!template id=photo photo=26085 title="Tyla sandy"]]

[[!template id=photos_album album=275 link="More photos"]]

[[!tag categories/holidays]]
