# Late trains

Just my observation that trains have been consistantly 5+ minutes late since
the start of the school holidays (9th April). 10+ minutes late or cancelled is
more usual.  Except for the occasional day when everything is almost on time.
Thursday is normally the worse day of the week. Today was no exception to this
rule.

In fact, today was even more dramatic then usual.

Normally, if everything is running on time, I should be able to catch the
5:00pm Belgrave train from Melbourne Central station and catch my bus easy.
However as the train almost always is too late and misses the connection, I
have been catching the earlier 4:49pm Belgrave train. Unfortuately, due to the
fact that train stops at Surrey Hills, is is frequently overcrowded.

So today I was running to try and catch the 4:43 Lilydale train, hopefully so I
could get a seat and change at Ringwood. Only I didn't need to run. It was 9
minutes late. There was also a wheel chair taking up a lot of the space, but it
wasn't his fault. One passenger assisted by getting of the train so other
people could enter/exit. Despite this, the train was so full we could hardly fit.

At Parliament station another wheel chair user wanted to get on. The driver
called for us to move down the isle, but the isle was already full. Fortunately
the potential passenger told him that there was not enough room, and didn't try
to board - their really was not enough room for another person let alone a
wheel chair.

At Glenferrie station we overshot the station by 1 or 2 carriages. Maybe the
driver didn't allow for the fact there were so many passengers on board? We had
to wait several minutes (getting permission to reverse?) during which time
nobody was allowed in or out the train. They did at least keep us up-to-date
with annoucements which was good.  Then the driver told us that due to the
trains running late we couldn't reverse back, and had to continue to Camberwell
station (I guess this means the next train was too close to us).

At Blackburn station things could eventful, as the train was still overflowing
with passengers, but the wheel chair use needed to back his wheel chair so he
could get off. Fortunately most people cooporated and left the train while he
got off, although there were some people who refused, making it just that bit
harder for him to navigate.

Eventually I got to Ringwood at 17:39 (scheduled 5:18). At this stage I noticed
the person who I thought was the driver wasn't the driver, but sitting to the
right of her.  Did wonder if inexperience may or may not have been a
contributing factor to the incident at Glenferrie.  I hear stopping trains at
stations correctly takes a bit of practice getting right. Not as easy as
stopping a car at traffic lights.

At Ringwood station, I caught the 17:52 Belgrave train (scheduled 17:23). It
got to Upper Ferntree Gully at 17:55 (scheduled to leave at 17:39), or 2
minutes after the bus left. Next bus 25 minutes away.

[[!tag categories/public_transport]]
