# Confusing letter
Date: 2007-05-09 18:00:35

I received this confusing letter from Connex today.

[[img connex_001.jpg size="800x600" alt="Connex response"]]

The letter says I had already submitted a claim using the ticket.  Monthly
ticket I used to support a claim for compensation. How do I submit a
ticket then if I am not allowed to submit the ticket?

Date: 2007-05-18 16:11:44

Connex replied and say they need more time to respond:

<blockquote>
<p>Case ref. number: jc/19828</p>

<p>18 May 2007</p>

<p>Mr Brian May</p>

<p>Dear Mr May</p>

<p>We refer to your telephone call to the Customer Feedback Line on 11 May 2007, regarding your claim for performance compensation.</p>

<p>As it is our practice to respond promptly to all customer enquiries, we apologise for the delay in responding to you.</p>

<p>The issue you have raised has required more time than originally anticipated.</p>

<p>At this stage, we anticipate that our investigations will be completed by 24 May, and a response will be issued at that time.</p>

<p>Thank you for taking the time to contact us, as your feedback plays a vital role in the monitoring and improvement of our service standards.</p>

<p>Yours sincerely</p>

<p>Jen Cummings</p>

<p>Customer Feedback</p>
</blockquote>

Eventually they sent me a letter via post which clarified the issue:

<blockquote>
<p>23 May 2007</p>

<p>We refer to your telephone call to the Customer Feedback Line on 11 May 2007, regarding
your claim for compensation for network-wide performance in February 2007.</p>

<p>As stated in our letter dated 4 May 2007, your application for compensation under the
Connex Service Commitment Code for February 2007, has not been approved as our
records indicate a claim has already been submitted using the ticket you provided to
support your claim for compensation.</p>

<p>A review of our records confirms that that the same ticket was used to claim compensation
in January and February 2007. The ticket was a Monthly Zone 123 which expired on 2
February 2007</p>

<p>Where the customer holds a monthly ticket, this ticket can only be used to support a single
compensation claim and cannot be used to support claims for compensation across two
months, even where the ticket has been used in both months.</p>

<p>Compensation is currently available for January, February, and March 2007. Our records
indicate that you have received compenstation for January and March.</p>

<p>If you held a periodical ticket that was valid from 3-28 February, you may submit a claim
with the original or a photocopy of the expired ticket. Please quote the reference number
at the top of thsi letter on your claim.</p>

<p>Should you require any further information, please contact Connex Customer Feedback on
1800 800 705.

Thank you for taking the tike to contact us.</p>

<p>Yours sincerely</p>

<p>Angela Marotta<br/>
Manager<br/>
Customer Feedback</p>
</blockquote>

Apparently I had submitted my January Monthly ticket trice, once for
compensation in January, and then again for compensation in February. I think it
is very sneaky, because nowhere is it indicated that you can only claim
compensation once for each monthly ticket. I could have claimed compensation
for January with my February ticket, March with with March ticket, and not been
able to claim compensation for February even though I purchased a monthly ticket
for each month.

In this case I hadn't done this (I almost did so but was paranoid enough not
to), so simply resending the compensation claim with the correct ticket solved
the issue.

[[tag categories/public_transport]]
