# Good announcements
Date: 2007-05-21 19:29:41

I sent the following feedback to Connex:

<blockquote><p>I liked the announcements the driver gave before every stop on
the 5:00pm Belgrave train from Melbourne Central last Friday (2007-05-18). Not
only did he announce every station, and reminded passengers that the train was
express (frequently passengers do get confused and the automatic announcements
on the newer trains don't help), he also apologised for the fact the train was
a Hitachi train (not really required as the Hitachi trains continue to provide
good service), and he also reminded passengers of the heavy rain outside.</p>

<p>Unfortunately the driver on the 5:03pm Ringwood train from Melbourne Central
today (2007-05-21) wasn't so good. After leaving Parliament station, we
appeared to loss all power as most of the lights went out, the displays went
black, the doors unlocked, and the train eventually rolled to a stop. Even when
the power came back on, the driver didn't say anything. I was just curious what
happened? Was it just our train or the entire City Loop that was affected?</p>
</blockquote>

Several months later (2007-06-18) I got a response:

<blockquote>
<p>18 June 2007</p>

<p>Mr B May</p>

<p>Dear Mr May</p>

<p>We refer to your email submitted on 21 May 2007.</p>

<p>Connex is committed to providing a professional and efficient standard
of service to all customers.</p>

<p>We certainly appreciate your positive feedback indicating your
satisfaction with the communication from our driver on the 5.00pm
service from Melbourne Central station to Belgrave on the 18 May 2007.</p>

<p>Your comments have been referred to the Train Services Manager, who has
ensured they are communicated to the staff member concerned, as well as
to the Connex Public Relations department for inclusion in the staff
magazine and reward and recognition program.</p>

<p>You have further enquired about the 5.03pm Melbourne central service to
Ringwood, which appeared to lose power after it had left Parliament
station on 21 May 2007. Also noted are your comments regarding the lack
of announcements from the driver during this incident.</p>

<p>Upon investigation, we can confirm that due to inclement weather the
5.03pm this service experienced a temporary loss of power. This appears
to have been an isolated case, as our investigation revealed no other
service experienced this problem.</p>

<p>We aim to provide a premium level of service to all customers and it is
of concern to learn of your experience. Your feedback has been brought
to the attention of our Train Services Manager and we regret any concern
this may have caused at the time.</p>

<p>Thank you for taking the time to write to us, as your feedback plays a
vital role in monitoring our service standards.</p>

<p>Yours sincerely</p>

<p>Tina Tsoukas</p>

<p>Customer Feedback</p>
</blockquote>

[[tag categories/public_transport]]
