# Overcrowded trains
Date: 2007-03-23 19:57:04

I sent in a complaint to Connex:

<blockquote>
I wish to make a complaint of overcrowding in the 9:10pm Belgrave train from
Flagstaff station on Tuesdays and Thursday nights. Last night (22/3/2007) the
train was so full that people were struggling to get on the train at Parliament
and Richmond station. This in turn caused delays to the train service, as
passengers searched the train for a carriage to board. In addition, it appeared
that we left passengers behind at both stations. This has an ongoing problem
since February this year. The train in question needs to be 6 carriages, 3
carriages simply aren't enough.
</blockquote>

I also noticed that there were three Connex employees jammed against one of the
doors (ticket inspectors?). I am not sure if the passengers still on the
platform at Flagstaff and Richmond wanted to board the train, but it seemed
unlikely that they had got off (at that time of night) or wanted to catch the
Glen Waverly train (it goes 5 minutes earlier). Chances are that the person I
saw on her mobile phone was making arrangements to get a left home...

I was in the front carriage - however I strongly suspect the other 2 carriages
would have been just as full, if not fuller (most people waiting at the
underground stations were within the centre of the train).

## Please wait
Date: 2007-03-26 18:33:25

I got this response:

<blockquote>
<p>Dear Mr May,</p>

<p>Thank you for contacting Connex Customer Feedback.</p>

<p>Following a determination of the issue raised, your comments have been
referred to the appropriate area for investigation.</p>

<p>A detailed response will be provided to you upon the completion of our
investigation.</p>

<p>We appreciate the opportunity to respond to your feedback.</p>

<p>Yours sincerely,</p>

<p>Customer Feedback</p>

<p>Connex Melbourne</p>
</blockquote>

Wow. I got them to start an "investigation" and will get a "detailed response".

Lets see what happens, I guess.

## Connex responds

<blockquote>
<p>Case No: lm/13477</p>

<p>29 March 2007</p>

<p>Mr Brian May</p>

<p>Dear Mr May</p>

<p>We refer to your email received in this office on 23 March 2007, in
regards to three carriage trains operating on the Belgrave line.</p>

<p>Your comments are acknowledged and we welcome the opportunity to provide
the following information.</p>

<p>As you are aware, six carriage trains are run during the morning and
afternoon peak periods, with three carriage trains run at most other
times. Historically, patronage levels have been lower during these
times, which has justified the use of three carriage trains.</p>

<p>Connex isare aware that patronage across the network is increasing, and
subsequently the demand for additional services and carriages is also on
the increase.</p>

<p>In order to better define the current passenger loadings and potential
need for additional carriages to be run, Connex continues to conduct a
six-monthly load count survey. The results of these surveys allow a
better understanding of our passenger travelling patterns, across the
network, throughout the day and evening.</p>

<p>The information gained from these load counts is utilised to assess
existing demand and to contribute to a business case to justify the
substantial cost arising from additional carriages being provided and of
new trains being purchased by the State Government.</p>

<p>Connex regularly forwards submissions to the State Government for
approval for funding, to upgrade the network's infrastructure. The State
Government assesses these requests based on passenger needs, urgency,
congested high patronage areas and allocates in order of priority
accordingly. 'Meeting Our Transport Challenges', a document released by
the State Government, outlines their proposal to spend $800 million on
new trains over the next ten years.</p>

<p>We respectfully advise that you may wish to find more information
regarding future developments via the Department of Infrastructure
website located at www.doi.vic.gov.au <http://www.doi.vic.gov.au/> .</p>

<p>Thank you for raising our awareness of this matter.</p>

<p>Yours sincerely</p>

<p>Luke Morrison</p>

<p>Customer Feedback</p>
</blockquote>

After 6 months I queried Connex again, and got no response.

[[!tag categories/public_transport]]
