# Praise for train driver
Date: 2007-02-21 14:10:13

Sent 2007-02-16 to Connex via their online E-Mail form concerning [[Signal_point_failure]]:

<blockquote><p>Hello,</p>

<p>I wish to thank the driver of the 7:47 train from Upper Ferntree Gully station for providing regular and detailed updates on the delays at the time, all the way from Bayswater station through to Richmond.</p>

<p>While this doesn't excuse the signal/point failure at Box Hill, or the fact the train was almost an hour late, it made the wait bearable knowing what was happening and why.</p>

<p>The slightly technical explanations were equally appreciated. I don't like being treated like an idiot, and this driver certainly didn't try to oversimplify things or try to make lame excuses.</p>

<p>Thanks.
</blockquote>

Response received 2007-02-21:

<blockquote><p>Connex is committed to providing a professional and efficient standard of service to all customers.</p>

<p>We certainly appreciate your positive feedback indicating your satisfaction with the communication provided by one of our drivers, on the 7.47am service from Upper Ferntree Gully, on the 16 February 2007.</p>

<p>Your comments have been referred to the Train Services Manager, who has ensured they are communicated to the staff member concerned, as well as to the Connex Public Relations department for inclusion in the staff magazine and reward and recognition program.</p>

<p>Thank you for taking the time to write to us, as your feedback plays a vital role in monitoring our service standards.</p>
</blockquote>

[[!tag categories/public_transport]]
