# Trains cancelled/late/slow
Date: 2007-10-08 10:05:10

Had a very eventful trip to the city today.

## Upper Ferntree Gully

7:47am train cancelled. Radio station said no trains cancelled.

PIDS displayed 7:39 as the next train in 3mins (this didn't seem to
change), when the 7:39 had already been and gone.

Caught 7:55 (Hitachi) instead.

## Mont Albert and Surrey Hills

The express train stopped before each of these stations for several
minutes.

## Camberwell

The train was so full people were slow to get one; at one point the
driver made an announcement along the lines of "we apologise for the
overcrowded train but there will be another train shortly if you just
let this train go."

## Richmond

I was going to catch the 8:45 direct train to Flinders Street, but
then observed:

<ul>
<li>It was only 3 carriages.</li>
<li>It was completely full.</li>
<li>Crowds of people waiting for it to stop so they could board.</li>
<li>I would have had problems getting off my train.</li>
</ul>

So I didn't bother.

## Parliament

Managed to get off my train; it was still overcrowded. I had to push
and shove a bit though.

On platform 3, I just missed the 8:53 (not sure of exact time) train
to Flinders Street (the doors closed right in front of me), so I
caught the 8:24 train to Flinders Street instead. Yes, this meant the
train was 30 minutes late (No, I didn't employ any time travel
techniques), although I only had to wait several minutes.

## Flinders Street

Arrived around 8:57. In time to catch the Fishermens Bend bus (235)
which was running 5 minutes late (9:05 instead of 9:00).


[[tag categories/public_transport]]
