[[!template id=trip destination="Khancoban"
transport="light aircraft" begin="1999-02-12" end="1999-02-14" purpose="holiday"
map="http://maps.google.com.au/maps/ms?ie=UTF8&hl=en&msa=0&ll=-36.20356,148.113213&spn=0.080202,0.116386&t=h&z=13&msid=109540496108482654955.000448811d88a61656f46"
]]

A condensed version of the following was published in the LFS newsletter,
February 1999, Number 38. GFPT is the General Flying Progress Test, and will
allow me to fly with passengers in the Lilydale training area. PPL is the
Private Pilots License, and will allow me to fly anywhere within Australia. BZA
and BZC are call signs of the respective aircraft.

On  Friday the  12th  of  November, I  arrived  at Lilydale airport  at 1pm.
As there were relatively few pilots and relatively many passengers on this
fly-away, this  flyaway was going to be unusual  in that I would be flying the
piper warrior, BZA, the  entire length of the trip with my mother and brother
as passengers instead of sharing the flying time with other student pilots.

When  I arrived,  I was  rather concerned  about the  weather as  it was
raining.  Jeremy, my  instructor, said that this shouldn&apos;t  be a problem
due to the high  cloud base.  We couldn&apos;t take off  straight away, as we
had  to  wait  for  my  passengers,  who  weren&apos;t  told  to  come  until
3:30pm.  During this wait, I became anxious when I heard that there were
thunderstorms coming as  I thought that we  may not be able  to leave in time.
Eventually everyone was ready, and  Jeremy said &quot;we will see what the
weather  is like  when we  are up there&quot;.   Fortunately, it  was OK. Later
on, we found the weather to be ideal at Khancoban.

For my first 2 hour flight (I don&apos;t yet have my GFPT), it was tiring and
difficult  for  me  to  keep  on  the  assigned  altitude  and  heading.
Every-time I  looked down at the  map, I would immediately  glance up at the
instruments and realize that I had dropped up to 500ft in height and rotated up
to 30 degrees  off course.  Gradually  I started to  get the hang of  looking
at  my map without  straying to far  off course,  but I still need to be better
before I can get my PPL...

The next day (Saturday) at Khancoban, we  had a bus tour around the area and
got a  chance to inspect some of the  hyro-power stations.  This was very
interesting, especially when Roger managed  to get us a tour inside the power
station that is  normally closed off  to the the  public.  We were  able to  go
right  down to  almost the  very bottom  of the  power station and see the
insides of a shaft with the turbine removed.

Sunday morning we  (my family) went on a walk  around Khancoban.  We had been
told  that the path was  easy to find  and easy to walk.   This may have been
the case if you  walked around it anti-clockwise,  however we walked around it
clockwise.  Almost immediately we got stuck  on a dead end track - not a good
start.   We went back and found the correct track and proceeded  to climb the
hill, up the  same way as  the transmission lines.

It was here where  the path split up into two  directions and we decided to go
clockwise around the circuit.   We proceeded to climb the hill and got some
very good photos in the process.  Eventually we started walking back down the
hill on the other side.  We  started getting concerned as we had run out  of
drink, and still there was no sign  of were the track turned back.  In
addition, we  ended up following the transmission lines away from  Khancoban,
in  the boiling  hot sun,  and we  were descending below the  top of the  hills
which we should  have been crossing  to get back.

Eventually we come across a main road,  and had to walk along it all the way
back to Khancoban (over 10km).  The net result?  We walked over 14km instead of
4km  as advertised.  We still don&apos;t know  where the track was meant to go
though, and would be interested to know where we went wrong.

Sunday  afternoon,  prior  to  the  plane trip  back  home,  I  suddenly
remembered that on the  way down, we had off loaded  most of our luggage on to
another plane (the  Navajo).  I reminded  Jeremy of this,  and he said  if if
we left  immediately  we might  catch it  before they  took off.  When we  got
there though, it  was already gone, and  BZC had just completed its startup
checks and was  about to taxi to leave when Jeremy off loaded our luggage on to
them.

Overall, the trip  was very enjoyable, and hopefully will  help me in my
progress to get my GFPT and eventually PPL.

[[!template id=photos_album album=33 link="More photos"]]
