# Townsville holiday

## Day 1 (2008-09-13) Flight to Cairns

Today we travelled by aircraft from Melbourne to Cairns, via Brisbane airport.
We did this in an aircraft. The aircraft flew in the air and did not crash
until we landed.

At Cairns the Hotel got our booking wrong. The process is that we booked via an
online booking agency, and they write the details into a fax, send it to the
hotel, where the hotel types it into their computer. Unfortunately they
mistyped the date, and the booking was made for the wrong day. The hotel was
fully booked out. Fortunately we were transferred to another hotel of the same
owner and stayed there the night.

In the night Dad took some night time photos with long exposure times (15 to 30
seconds).

## Day 2 (2008-09-14) Cairns to Cape Tribulation

We drove. In a car. A rental car. A rental car that was black, to be precise.
At one stage we had to cross a river in a car ferry. The ferry cost as $19 for
a return trip.

## Day 3 (2008-09-15) Cape Tribulation

Today we walked up Mount Sorrow. You have to be careful to stay in sight of the
orange arrows (or orange ribbons or blue ribbons) otherwise you can easily end
up walking in the wrong direction (because it looks like that is the direction
the path takes). We did so on several occasions and had to back track our steps
and find out where the path disappeared to.

At one point we thought we were almost at the top. Wrong. We had only started
the steep stretch. The path just kept going up as far as you could see.
Eventually we got to the top of a steep stretch of path, but before we could
get any relief, the path turned 90 degrees and we were at the bottom of the
next ever lasting steep stretch of path. At the top of the mountain we got a
good view, from a metal cage. Some people criticised the cage as being ugly,
but it provided a place to wait without fear of leaches. Unfortunately no
seats were provided.

## Day 4 (2008-09-16) Cape Tribulation to Dundara

On the way to Dundara, we saw the Millstream falls, and made some friends
with some Kookaburras.

There are a large number of road trains using this stretch of road. Each
vehicle can be anything up to 5 units long (1 engine + 4 trailers).

Throughout the entire area there is a lot of sugar cane farms. All of these
farms are linked by the narrow gauge sugar cane railway. The carriages look top
heavy, but somehow they manage to stay on the tracks. There are numerous level
crossings, with some of them being rather complicated because there has been no
attempt to relocate the train track away from intersections. Instead, a placing
give way signs at appropriate points is considered satisfactory.

Dundara is a place of historic volcanic activity. It is now a national park.
We went on the sunset tour, and saw kangaroos, wallabies, and bats flying out
of the lava tube at night.

## Day 5 (2008-09-17) Dundara to Ingham

We went on the half day tour, and saw more wildlife. We also saw the insides of
some of the lava tubes.

Later on we saw a number of water falls and headed for Ingham. At Ingham
we stayed at in old building, Hotel Noorla, with historic features. For
example, the owner created all the tiles by hand, and they appeared to be
of good quality.

## Day 6 (2008-09-18) Ingham to Townsville

We see more waterfalls (the Wallaman Falls).  When driving we go around a
corner and find a dead cow on the road in front of us. Only it isn't dead.
There are two calves, back to back, sun baking on the road. We blast our horn
at them as we pass them, but they don't seem to take any notice.

We walk to the bottom of the waterfalls and take lots of photos.

After the falls, we drive in our brown rental car to Townsville. By this stage,
the car has been covered in layers of dirt and tar (from the many road works) and
bullshit (from wondering live stock) that it is no longer black.

## Day 7-9 Townsville

My sister attended a wedding in Melbourne (the irony!), so we look after her
dogs and try not to destroy her house too much in the process. On the first day
we accidentally flood the house (the hose come out of the sink from the washing
machine). On the second day the toilet flush mechanism breaks and is no longer
functional.
