# Communications
Date: 2008-12-04 16:00:00

At around 7:47am, when the train was arriving at Upper Ferntree
Gully station, we assumed it was the 7:47 train. Express Box Hill to
Richmond, stops all stations on the city loop.

The station announced that it was stopping all stations to Flinders
Street station. Had the station staff made a mistake[1]? The signs in
the train had indicated it was a City Loop train, but now said Connex.

After a number of stops, the signs in the train changed to "stopping all
stations direct to Flinders Street station." Ok, not a good sign.

[[!more text="""
The driver made an announcement before Ringwood saying that the train
was now a stopping all stations Flinders Street direct train. He didn't
say why or what city loop passengers should be doing. My first thought
was maybe the city loop was closed for some reason. So I stayed on the
train.

Before Box Hill station the driver finally told us what I would have
liked to have known much earlier:

* point failure at Belgrave
* this train was an additional service

If I known this earlier I could have waited for the next train at Upper
Ferntree Gully station and got a seat for the full duration of the trip.

At Box Hill I caught the real 7:47 service (the one I thought I had
caught). Predictably it was running late. It train ended up arriving at
Melbourne Central at 8:46, 10 minutes late.

Connex needs to provide better information to passengers when things don't go
to plan. This would enable passengers to use Connex services more efficiently.

I submitted feedback to Connex via their website (case number 2008/011568).

Notes:

[1] recently a train stopped at Blackburn, and station staff announced
it was a changing to become a stopping all stations train. Apparently
nobody told the driver. The train used the track normally used for
express trains too.
"""]]

[[!tag categories/public_transport]]
