# Missed connection
Date: 2008-08-12 23:35:32

I sent the following feedback to Metlink. I also considered contacting 
Connex and US Bus Lines directly, however last I tried contacting both 
operators I got no response. It is this kind of situation where we 
really need a central authority to manage this; at present when I talk 
to the bus drivers they blame Connex and when I talk to Connex they 
blame the bus companies.

I didn't mention that I refused to wait one hour for the next bus, and 
instead got somebody to give me a lift instead.

Maybe I should have mentioned that I have to get out of work 15 minutes 
early to catch this train, and as such I catching the prior train isn't 
really a good option. Besides the timetable says these services should 
connect.

The bus driver might argue that he had no way of knowing it was the 5:48 
train running late and not the next train running early, and maybe he 
really didn't see me jumping up and down and waving from the station as 
he was pulling out from the bus stop.

I might add the reason the train was late in the first place was because 
the prior Lilydale train was held up at Box Hill station (and just 
before Laburnum station) for about 5 minutes waiting for the Blackburn 
train, which presumably was running late and had priority where the two 
tracks merge into one.

[[!template id=quotation 
text="""Hello,

Normally I catch the 5:00pm Melbourne Central train. It is due to arrive 
at Upper Ferntree Gully station at 5:48pm, in time to meet the 5:53pm 
698 Bus service to Olinda. It is clearly indicated in the official 
printed Metlink timetable that this bus meets this train.

Today the train was running 6 minutes late by the time it reached 
Ringwood station. This is not normally a problem, as the train normally 
catches up by the time it gets to Upper Ferntree Gully station.

This time however, when the train stopped at Bayswater. The driver left 
his cabin, and didn't return for 5 minutes. What was the train driver 
doing all this time?

The train arrived at Upper Ferntree Gully station at 5:54pm, just in 
time to exit the train and see the bus depart. The bus driver must have 
seen the train arrive. Why didn't he wait? The timetable clearly says 
that the bus connects with this particular train service, I feel this 
means the bus should wait for the train if the train is running late.

As such, I had to wait one hour for the next bus.

Please forward my feedback to the relevant companies.

Thanks.

Brian May"""
author="""Brian May"""
title="""Case Number: 2008/006687"""
date="""2008-08-12""" pub="""E-Mail"""]]

I got feedback from PTUA saying bus drivers have to make a hard decision. Wait
for the train that is running late, or keep to the timetable? This is made
worse by the fact the bus driver doesn't know when the bus is going ro arrive.
In this case it could be argued the bus should have waited though, because the
train had arrived at the station at much the same time it departed.

The ideal solution would be to increase the [frequency](http://wiki.microcomaustralia.com.au/transport/public/frequency/) of the bus service.
If there was one bus every ten minutes, it wouldn't worry me if I just missed
one bus. In fact I would expect the bus to leave even if the train just arrived
at the same time.

Of course, if the first service is running late, missed the first
connection, and the 2nd connection was cancelled due to "short circuit
in air-conditioner", I might be slightly irritated, however it still is
only a 20 minute wait maximum. I would be prepared to wait that long, as
long as it doesn't happen often. 60 minutes on the other hand is
excessive, even if by pure luck (as opposed to adherence to the
timetables) it doesn't happen often.

It looks like my email was forwarded to Connex. I got an automatic
response. Lets see what happens...

Later: I got a response from Connex:

[[!template id=quotation 
text="""Case no: lm/006687

27 August 2008

Mr Brian May

Dear Mr May

We refer to your email received in this office on 12 August 2008.

Your comments regarding the 5pm Melbourne Central station service to 
Belgrave on 12 August are acknowledged, and we welcome the opportunity 
to provide the following information.

*_Service History – 12 August_*

Our records indicate that the 5pm Melbourne Central station service to 
Belgrave was delayed in transit due to an increase in customer boarding 
and disembarking timeframes.

The initial delay was compounded after a smashed carriage window was 
identified on the service, and our driver was instructed by Metrol, our 
train control centre, to check for damage to ascertain if the train was 
safe to continue to Belgrave.

In regards to ‘connecting’ bus services, we can advise that the 
integrated public transport timetable is the responsibility of the State 
Government.

Connex, Yarra Trams, the State Government and local bus operators are 
currently working on a system of increased communication between the 
transport operators in the outer suburbs of Melbourne, with the 
intention that this would include a system capable of alerting the bus 
drivers of delays on the train network.

In a current trial of a new communication system, train arrival 
information is currently being provided to bus drivers at the transport 
interchanges in Ringwood and Frankston. If beneficial, this system will 
be implemented at transport interchanges across the train network.

Notwithstanding the above, we fully acknowledge the inconvenience 
experienced as a result of this disruption.

Thank you for bringing your concerns to our attention.

Yours sincerely

Luke Morrison

Customer Resolution Co-ordinator"""
author="""Luke Morrison"""
title="""Connex"""
date="""2008-08-27""" pub="""E-Mail"""]]

[[!tag categories/public_transport]]
