# Townsville holiday
Date: 2008-09-29 20:00:00

[[!template id=photos_album album=255 link="Photos"]]

## Day 1 (2008-09-13) Flight to Cairns

Today we travelled by aircraft from Melbourne to Cairns, via Brisbane airport.
We did this in an aircraft. The aircraft flew in the air and did not crash
until we landed.

At Cairns the Hotel got our booking wrong. The process is that we booked via an
online booking agency, and they write the details into a fax, send it to the
hotel, where the hotel types it into their computer. Unfortunately they
mistyped the date, and the booking was made for the wrong day. The hotel was
fully booked out. Fortunately we were transferred to another hotel of the same
owner and stayed there the night.

[[!template id=photo photo=19333 title="Accommodation"]]

In the night Dad took some night time photos with long exposure times (15 to 30
seconds).

[[!template id=photo photo=19318 title="Night time Photo"]]

## Day 2 (2008-09-14) Cairns to Cape Tribulation

We drove. In a car. A rental car. A rental car that was black, to be precise.
At one stage we had to cross a river in a car ferry. The ferry cost as $19 for
a return trip. We stayed the night at Heritage Lodge.

[[!template id=photo photo=19464 title="Heritage Lodge"]]

## Day 3 (2008-09-15) Cape Tribulation

[[!template id=photo photo=19398 title="Wompoo Fruit-dove"]]

Today we walked up Mount Sorrow. You have to be careful to stay in sight of the
orange arrows (or orange ribbons or blue ribbons) otherwise you can easily end
up walking in the wrong direction (because it looks like that is the direction
the path takes). We did so on several occasions and had to back track our steps
and find out where the path disappeared to.

At one point we thought we were almost at the top. Wrong. We had only started
the steep stretch. The path just kept going up as far as you could see.
Eventually we got to the top of a steep stretch of path, but before we could
get any relief, the path turned 90 degrees and we were at the bottom of the
next ever lasting steep stretch of path. At the top of the mountain we got a
good view, from a metal cage. Some people criticised the cage as being ugly,
but it provided a place to wait without fear of leaches. Unfortunately no
seats were provided.

[[!template id=photo photo=19446 title="View from top of Mount Sorrow"]]

We started the walk at 10:55, arrived at the top at 13:32, started the descent
at 14:51, and got back to the bottom at 16:22.

## Day 4 (2008-09-16) Cape Tribulation to Undara

On the way to Undara, we saw the Millstream falls, and made some friends
with some Kookaburras.

There are a large number of road trains using this stretch of road. Each
vehicle can be anything up to 5 units long (1 engine + 4 trailers).

Throughout the entire area there is a lot of sugar cane farms. All of these
farms are linked by the narrow gauge sugar cane railway. The carriages look top
heavy, but somehow they manage to stay on the tracks. There are numerous level
crossings, with some of them being rather complicated because there has been no
attempt to relocate the train track away from intersections. Instead, a placing
give way signs at appropriate points is considered satisfactory.

Undara is a place of historic volcanic activity. It is now a national park.  We
went on the sunset tour, and saw kangaroos, wallabies, and bats flying out of
the lava tube at night. We learnt that kangaroos have pointy ears and wallabies
have rounded ears.

[[!template id=photo photo=19559 title="Kangaroo"]]

## Day 5 (2008-09-17) Undara to Ingham

We went on the half day tour, and saw more wildlife. We also saw the insides of
some of the lava tubes.

[[!template id=photo photo=19679 title="lava tube"]]

The mango tree on the side of the road is significant because it marks where
the lava crossed this area.

[[!template id=photo photo=19720 title="mango tree"]]

Later on we saw a number of water falls and headed for Ingham. At Ingham
we stayed at in old building, Hotel Noorla, with historic features. For
example, the owner created all the tiles by hand, and they appeared to be
of good quality.

[[!template id=photo photo=19814 title="Ellinjaa Falls"]]

We stay the night in a historic Hotel.

[[!template id=photo photo=19895 title="Hotel Noorla"]]

## Day 6 (2008-09-18) Ingham to Townsville

We see more waterfalls (the Wallaman Falls).  When driving we go around a
corner and find a dead cow on the road in front of us. Only it isn't dead.
There are two calves, back to back, sun baking on the road. We blast our horn
at them as we pass them, but they don't seem to take any notice.

We walk to the bottom of the waterfalls and take lots of photos.

[[!template id=photo photo=19968 title="Wallaman Falls"]]

After the falls, we drive in our brown rental car to Townsville. By this stage,
the car has been covered in layers of dirt and tar (from the many road works) and
bullshit (from wondering live stock) that it is no longer black.

## Day 7 (2008-09-19) to day 9 (2008-09-21) Townsville

My sister attended a wedding in Melbourne (the irony!), so we look after her
dogs and try not to destroy her house too much in the process. On the first day
we accidentally flood the house (the hose come out of the sink from the washing
machine). On the second day the toilet flush mechanism breaks and is no longer
functional. On the third day nothing breaks.

We take lots of photos of birds, lizards, snakes and dogs in the area.

[[!template id=photo photo=20098 title="Frog"]]

## Day 10 (2008-09-22) to day 16 (2008-09-28) Townsville

Fix stuff around my sisters house. Fix leaking toilet. Repeatedly. Fix TV, and
allow it to receive ABC (perfectly) and other channels (not so good - Antenna
is VHF only). Install blinds to protect dogs from insects in wet season.

[[!template id=photo photo=20234 title="Cockatoo"]]

## Day 13 (2008-09-25) Townsville

Walk through Town Common taking photos of birds.

[[!template id=photo photo=20307 title="Kookaburra"]]

## Day 14 (2008-09-26) Townsville

Walk through Town Common and take photos from the top of Mount Marlow.

[[!template id=photo photo=20545 title="Townsville"]]

## Day 15 (2008-09-27) to day 16 (2008-09-28) Townsville

Continue fixing stuff. No photos. Wasted days.

## Day 17 (2008-09-29) Townsville

Today we leave Townsville to go back home, in Melbourne. The aircraft flies
through the sky. It is powered by our camera, with every photo we take we
propels the aircraft forward and keep it in the air. Flying is perfectly safe,
as long as we don't run out of batteries. When the camera fills up with photos
it is time to land.

[[!template id=photo photo=20631 title="Magnetic Island"]]

[[!tag categories/holidays]]
